Yeah.
Welcome everyone,
let's just give a couple of minutes.
For the late commerce.
Good evening.
Well, I'm off mute. Kurt, am I audible?
Yeah, you're audible.
Perfect.
No problem.
Thank you for that.
I just wanted to make sure it was working.
Kind of worries.
Alex, you want to start now?
Or maybe wait like a minute or so.
Yep, let's start now.
I hope everyone you can see my slides.
Yes, we can, yeah.
Set is such is the way to say that set.
Message.
Oh, thanks for letting me know.
This is pretty new for me. Okay, cool.
Welcome everyone. Welcome to SIT.
Oh, okay. Well,
person giving the welcome address,
I guess, just dropped off.
Yikes, something definitely happened. Hey,
Alex,
something happened and you dropped off.
Hi everyone, did you, did you,
is it just me that dropped off?
Yeah, just you.
I'm sad now, is that the correct use?
Let me see, that's the right one.
I hope so. Yeah,
I hope you guys can see my screen.
ALEX.
Welcome to SIT 102.
This might be the first unit of the
starting of your unit, the uni year,
this first year class. And I'm Alex.
Let me briefly introduce myself.
I'm A Deakin graduate.
I graduated from the Bachelor of Computer
Science and I'm working in the industry
as an implementation consultant.
It's an IT job that doesn't really write
code,
but I'm doing a lot of other IT stuff,
including
testing, deployments,
all the IT services and all.
And Ben is the support tutor of this
class. Ben,
could you please also briefly introduce
yourself? Thanks.
Of course, of course. Good evening,
everyone. I'm Doctor Ben Philip. Now,
I too am a Deakin graduate.
I did my bachelor's in engineering,
and that was, well, 13, 14 years ago.
I graduated with a bachelor's in
engineering,
spent a while in the industry,
and then came to Deakin to my master's.
followed by my PhD,
both in software engineering and software
architecture.
And I am currently working in the
industry as a senior engineer,
basically senior engineer doing the job
of a tech lead, but hey,
you know how it is, Alex. But yeah,
got well over what I think.
13, 14 years of experience writing code,
and more actually 20 years of experience
writing code,
15 or so years professionally.
And I've also been teaching SIT 102 since
April 2018. So yeah, it's been a while.
It's been a long while.
I did leave teaching for a couple of
years, from 2023, but I.
I'm back again. So yeah,
I need to say you guys are in good hands,
I guess. Back to you, Alex.
Yeah,
thank you very much for the introduction.
Yeah, I know,
it just to get the once you learn this
unit, it just gets too addicted.
We cannot get rid of SIT one or two. Yeah,
Yeah, I mean, I mean,
I've gone through so many unit chairs.
so.
I started with Andrew Kane,
and then Gloria Lee,
and then of course Evan now.
So basically through three, four,
five different iterations and versions of
this unit. We've seen it all.
Yeah, you had the history of this unit,
but yeah,
Teh.
you guys are in very good hands and both
me and Ben have been teaching this unit
Teh.
for a very long time. So,
we've learned this unit well,
and we hope that we can help you guys to
have a great achievement starting your
IT career. Well,
if you realise later you hate IT,
that's another win as well.
Yeah, it's never going to be like that.
I mean, I personally,
I did horribly in my first programming
lessons and, hey,
ended up doing like getting a doctorate
in the same subject, so you never know.
Yeah.
Fair enough.
Fun fact,
my first first ever computer science
programming exam, I scored 12 out of 100.
That is 1-2 out of 100.
That was 20 years ago, I guess, but...
Now there's nothing called coding test.
Maybe I believe in your coding test,
Uh, I know, right?
you need to like handwritten your codings
on a paper.
But yes,
back then we used to hand write code and
it used to be, you know,
evaluated by another person who had
absolutely no idea whether or not the
programme worked, but hey, 20 years apart,
you know,
you end up doing like a PhD in the same
subject, you fail.
So you can say I've seen pretty much the
worst and the best parts of both.
We have this world, so right.
Yeah.
It's good to know.
Don't worry, Muna. Basically,
what I'm trying to say is,
if you think you're stuck, don't worry.
I've been in a worse situation,
so you're in good hands.
Yes, I'm pretty sure, yeah,
you'll have fun in this unit as well.
Could we have a little bit of icebreaker
that could you please send what courses
you guys are doing?
I believe you guys are coming from all
different areas of
IT, maybe cybersecurity,
information technology or computer
science like I did,
please let us know what is your degree
that you are doing and find your
classmates and find three other
classmates whose first name has at least
one of the same letters as your first
name.
Got Bachelor of IT, Computer Science,
Artificial Intelligence - pretty cool.
That's the...
Yeah, that's the latest one, several sack,
yeah.
That was nice, well.
Just hanging out, KUHL.
Yeah, welcome.
Just hanging out and having fun.
Bachelor of Technology, Master of IT,
PhD in Software Design and Architecture
for M Health.
I almost read it as my health.
That's a lot.
You're doing PhD for your health? No way.
Yeah, I wish I could do that.
I tell you,
I've already done with it like four years
That's.
ago, so yeah, I don't want to do it again.
Permanent, permanent brain damage.
Permanent,
permanent head damage - that's what we
Yeah, exactly. Okay, cool. Um, Alex, yeah,
feel free to mute yourself.
call it.
Alex, you have your hand up.
Can you mute yourself?
Yeah, unmute yourself here.
Yeah, I just, I was going to type it.
I realised that's going to take way too
long as fast as I type.
Just a quick question.
Sort of not relevant, but at 7pm,
we have the Mentor program.
Mhm.
Do we need to leave this to go to that
for the first time or do we just...
If he...
Wait for a...
If you need to leave,
if you need to leave, it's okay,
it's perfectly fine. I mean,
today we'll mostly be covering a lot of
the admin stuff and the background stuff,
what OnTrack is, what you'd be doing. So,
and of course,
these sessions are recorded.
So if you do need to leave for the first
session, that's fine,
but do keep in mind in subsequent
sessions that we have like this,
being in plasma might actually be more
helpful.
Okay, I'll stay right here then.
Thank you. Cheers. Thank you.
Yeah.
For this one, it's alright.
If you need to leave for the Mentor
session, please feel free.
No, they can wait.
Thank you.
Yeah, I'll later cover. Yeah, awesome.
Thank you, thank you for saying. Later,
Good answer.
I will cover what our seminar structure
is, and yeah,
as well as the mentor session that you
may want probably later want to join,
then you can decide leverage.
Which, which one you would like to draw?
Embarrassing amount of hours invested in
dollar two.
Five, 6 years. Wow. Awesome.
Yeah, that's great.
Great to see people still playing this
game, you know.
I thought at the moment no one's playing
this game. Old school chess. Oh,
there's a chess club actually in Deakin.
Yes.
If you are interested, you can join.
Help.
I voted for President.
Do they do online because I'm cloud
student?
Right, that's a good question.
We will find it out.
Yeah, yeah, awesome.
They started the club around about the
time I was about to graduate. I was like,
man, just a bit too late.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Huh.
Yeah. Awesome. Yeah.
Good to see all of you guys having fun.
Hopefully you meet your classmates,
having find the students who have the
similar units that you guys are doing.
Happy for you to form any sort of group
chats, discord or anything.
If you have the link, feel free to share.
We definitely support you guys to foster
a learning together kind of vibe so we
can all group together. Okay, cool.
Awesome. Okay.
Next one.
So next chapter,
we are going to introduce a little bit of
this unit.
This unit is called Introduction to
Introduction to Programming.
It is a core required unit for all school
of IT students.
So you can see everyone coming from
different fields, cybersecurity,
data science.
software engineering and all.
It is not a requirement to have prior
programming experience,
like what Ben has talked about.
His extreme experience before, apparently,
he either hated or not having a very
solid understanding of programming before
he jumped in the class. So that's.
perfectly fine.
We have a lot of students who don't even
Okay.
know how to, what coding is, i.e.
just writing software, right?
But they can also finish the course with
distinction, high distinction.
This is 100% not a problem if you don't
have previous knowledge,
as long as you follow us and follow the
schedule, you'll be fine. OK, so...
I hope you guys all stay motivated and
stay ambitious and hope you guys all
having a very good experience.
And the more you learn,
you actually will like this more.
And yeah, no, all good.
Hey, sorry to interrupt. For motivation,
for motivation, you got me right. I mean,
if you ever feel like you're stuck, hey,
remember there's this guy who's teaching
the unit who barely,
who could barely pass this first attempt.
So don't worry,
things might seem a bit difficult at
first. You know,
keep on shipping over at it and it'll get
easy over time.
You just need to put in the effort.
Yeah, exactly, exactly. It's,
but it's the good thing is at the moment
later we'll introduce the OnTrack system
is very,
your effort will be really visible
compared to the traditional way of
assessments that we will cover this just
in a bit. Okay.
Um...
So in this unit, we will be learning,
we'll be starting from C# and later
switch back to C. With that,
it's not actually just teaching you these
two languages. We, in this unit,
you will acquire the fundamental concepts
of
computer programming,
then it will be applicable to all
programming languages.
We've had a lot of questions around why
you guys are still teaching C,
because I already see people saying that
C hurts my eyes or brain or whatever.
I know it could be a pain.
And yeah,
why not you guys teaching Python,
for example?
Python is so popular that everyone wants
to learn. And I, based on my experience,
it's actually because Python is so
advanced, it's too advanced that it jumps,
skips a lot of the basic concepts like
data types and all. So
Sometimes it can confuse you as a
professional software developer.
So that's my experience.
So although it hurts your brain and it
hurts your eyes as well,
these two languages are very good for as
a starting point. Ben,
do you have anything to add on?
Yes, yeah,
I have plenty of things to add on to that,
right? So I mean,
I know a lot of people do ask me and I've
actually got the same question even from
2018, right?
Every single trimester people ask me the
same question,
why are they not learning C# or Python or
something else? Why does it have to be C?
And my answer is this, right?
This unit is called Introduction to
Programming,
not Introduction to a Certain Language.
You're not really learning, you know,
libraries and constructs of a language.
You're learning how to code. And by that,
what we mean is you learn how to think
about solving problems, which means
How do you understand something?
How do you break it down into smaller
parts?
And how can you apply programming
concepts to solve that problem? Right.
So when you're doing that,
there are many different approaches that
you can take,
whether each different language would
have a different way of doing it.
That's just the syntax. In my experience,
I've worked with C, C, Java, Python.
TypeScript, JavaScript, CoffeeScript,
I mean,
that's like a very obscure language,
I know. Rust, Golang,
like plenty of languages, right?
Even assembly for that matter.
And in every single one of them,
the logic is basically the same.
You do the same thing,
it's just how you do it.
That's a bit different.
But it's always the same thing.
Once you understand how you can solve a
problem.
The languages don't really matter;
you can pick it up in like a matter of
days, you know, if you put them on to it.
I'm sure Alex can agree to that.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, 100%. Actually,
I started Python as a side project before
I jump into a proper computer science
degree, and it really confused me a lot.
So once I actually started on C and C#,
it's actually a way better way to
approach to
to coding itself. Yeah,
that's my experience.
The.
Yeah,
the best I've done is like writing
programmes directly onto hardware, right?
So it's an Intel 8085 processor from like
the 1980s.
We used to write code directly in
hexadecimal and add that into like the
Ram directly and then programme a CPU to
run it. No GUI, nothing.
just hexadecimal. Again,
even if you're doing that,
the core logic is still the same.
You have loops,
you have conditional statements,
and you have pretty much the same thing
that you'll be doing in C or C,
but written in a very, very low language,
therefore low level language.
Yeah, and you will have that fun also.
You won't miss that fun.
You guys have SIT 111, hopefully.
That's a unit that has more lower level
language.
I hope you guys enjoy that as well. Okay,
cool. Let's continue. So in this unit,
The concept of programming will actually
prepare you for any of the industry jobs.
It's not only constrained to limited just
to programming.
We can do all sort of things like what
I'm doing at the moment.
I do more support roles because I enjoy a
bit of customer facing.
Is we get the I kind of get the good both
the good things.
I get the technical part and I get the
customer facing part.
So I have some free time not to sit in
front of computer and try to, you know,
spend some time in front of clients,
you know,
talk and having meetings so I don't have
to work A lot.
Yeah, that's half of my day.
So there are a lot of opportunities in
this industry,
but being able to read code and
interpreting code and understanding the
function is essential, which is also,
and also the concepts that you know,
it will equip me.
equip you guys the ability to communicate
with both industry people with
technological backgrounds or without
technological backgrounds.
So that is another very important aspect
of this unit. So yeah,
hope you enjoy this unit and
Hope this unit will help you to success
in the future.
Okay,
so next we'll introduce how the
assessment structure of SIT 102.
I hope all you guys have a little bit of
glance on OnTrack,
which is the assessment system we are
adopting at the moment.
We have been using this for quite a while
in
the School of IT in Deakin specifically.
Compared to the traditional way of
assessment, now we are using,
adapting a list of tasks.
We aim for more of completion rather than
asking you to be
Perfect in trying in some big,
big projects,
so we have this weekly list of...
List of tasks that you must complete in
order to get the grade that you want to
have. So,
and also the good thing is that you can
set up your aim,
you can set up your target and work
towards your target grade,
and you'll have more control towards.
what grade you are finally get instead of
you doing your best and hoping for the
best. All right.
So,
OnTrack tasks are tier-based from pass to
high distinction.
Tasks increase slightly in difficulty at
each tier. So,
it's pretty understandable that you have
pass tasks, you have credit tasks,
and you have distinction tasks.
Each tier, the...
Teh.
The top one will be more difficult than
the past tasks. And yeah,
we do have tests. You have two tests,
one at week 5 and another one at week 9.
So week 9,
the test 2 in week 9 is the hurdle of
this unit. You must.
pass this test in order to pass the unit.
Test one is more for preparation for test
2. So don't worry,
we will talk more of the test before the
test comes.
So we will have practise test for you and
we'll have sessions
Just for these tests, we have,
we'll go through all the test practise
test questions,
so you know what to expect on those tests.
Yes,
and you also have multiple attempts to
test. For the first test, test one,
you won't have multiple attempts because
it's just a
Practise for the final test 2.
But in the final test 2,
you will have two to three attempts.
But please stay tuned to the
announcements.
How many receipts are available?
That's up to.
please let us notify.
And you've got a question,
feel free to mute yourself.
Jacob, test if you are on campus students.
I'm not sure if any on campus students
also watching this seminar. Oh, I think,
oh no, maybe not.
So if you are on campus students,
you must show up at the
scheduled test time.
But if you are online student,
we have like a two day window for you to
submit your test papers.
It will still be a scheduled days,
but you will have one or day flexibility
to finish the test.
Cool, online, yeah, that's perfectly fine,
yeah.
Yep, so I hope that answers your question.
And more information will be published
before the test happens.
You will receive an e-mail about how the
test will be carried out and how you can
see the test, the REECE the test.
And please let us know if you have any
difficulties in attending those tests
because it's really important.
And it's a hurdle.
We all wish you to pass that test.
So we will facilitate,
we will assist in any method that we can
to help you get that done. So,
and especially this is an online learning
environment.
I hope we can maintain that flexibility.
Yeah, transfer missed the window,
for example, test.
It will be like a full day window,
so from midnight to another midnight. So,
and it takes, if you are quick,
it takes one hour max, yeah,
to pass the test. And you have receipts,
so if you miss the first attempt, you can.
sit in the second attempt.
So hopefully there will be a time that
works for you. Yeah,
but do let us know if you cannot meet it,
cannot make it,
and we will think of a way to get that
done. Yeah.
So coming back to the OnTrack,
so OnTrack to achieve a grade,
you must complete all tasks of that tier
and below.
So if you are getting a credit grade,
you need to finish
all pass tasks and credit tasks.
All pass tasks are the minimum
requirement to pass this unit.
So students who aim to pass this unit and
above needs to finish at least all the
pass tasks. So.
In those tasks,
you will receive tutor feedback on each
task you submit.
And it will be an iterative learning
process, so, like,
similar to the tests for each task on
OnTrack, you also have reattempts, so...
Say, for example,
you submit a task and it's not really up
to standard,
the tutor can assign a resubmit status to
your task,
so you get a chance to submit the task
again and get feedback,
but only if you submit them on time.
OnTrack tasks, you will see a due date.
That due date means the due date to
receive feedback. So for OnTrack tasks,
there's no actual deadlines,
hard deadlines for those tasks.
Every task that you submitted.
will be assessed at the end of the
trimester. Hi Ben, sorry,
do you have anything to add?
Just to point out, right?
So when you say we have a deadline and
Two.
OnTrack, again, Alex is correct.
We don't have a hard deadline as such,
but what that means is that once you pass
that deadline,
you won't get any more feedback, right?
So let's say the deadline is,
what's the date today, 5th?
Let's say the deadline is the 10th of
March.
and you submit something on the 11th.
What that would mean is you will not get
any feedback on your submission.
And if that is correct, good for you.
If that is wrong,
you actually end up losing marks.
So that happens towards the end with your
portfolio. So please, please,
please make sure that you submit every
single task that you're attempting.
on time and you also get feedback and you
address them in that time, right?
It does not mean if the deadline is,
you know, 1159 P.m.
on the 9th of March that you submit at
1158. Do not make that mistake.
Try to submit as early as possible.
Try to get that feedback and if it's good,
it's good.
If you get any feedback,
just know that we're trying to help you
improve.
And if there is anything that you need to
address,
the earlier that you can take care of it,
the better.
Thanks.
Yep, thank you. So...
We talked about the, we need to complete,
we must complete the test in order to
pass this unit. All right. And OnTrack,
if you go,
if you have already started a task in
task P1,
there's a suggested due date schedule. So,
it's different according to different
target grades.
So if you're targeting past task,
you follow the past task schedules.
If you're aiming for credit,
follow the credit task schedules.
That's the suggest schedule. Again,
that is the suggest schedule for you to
be able to catch up on the progress.
And this target grade can be adjusted any
time.
during the trimester.
But the issue is that we encourage you to
aim higher at the beginning.
So if you're aiming for credit at the
beginning,
but later you want to target for a
distinction,
but you realise that there's less time
for you to finish all the distinction
tasks because on credit timeline,
all the due dates,
all the suggested due dates are a little
bit behind.
So you will feel the time is really
ticking.
So we would encourage you guys to aim for
a higher grade and later if you feel like,
oh,
it's really too hard to catch up and then
you can lower your grade.
That will be easier and put you in a
better status.
Because remember that.
In order to pass the unit,
you need to ensure that all past tasks
are finished.
On time,
I don't think there are any issues
submitting anything ahead of time.
Now,
now we have one more student with a hand
up. Sorry, we actually missed you.
Yep, I asked Enamul before.
Oh.
Yeah, feel free to, yeah, lower the hand.
Cool. Yeah,
Yeah, OK.
so if you have a task specific questions,
we can we can solve that when we are
going into the one-on-one help time,
which I'll cover it later,
how this unit and how our seminar will be.
Structured, forget what I wanted to ask.
Sorry,
you can always leave a message on the
chat, so we can see it.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah, so again, to answer this question,
you can for Jake,
are you able to complete the task much
earlier than expected? Yes,
you can do that. Now,
as long as you're comfortable with the
content, go for it, right?
If you want to finish like all 10 weeks
of, you know, user missions, do it.
But keep in mind that getting feedback.
might be a bit, it might take a while.
We normally try to give it within like 5
business days that is like, you know,
the agreement of sorts that we have.
We will try to finish it by 5 days,
but if you submit like 15 tasks in one
day, it might be a bit more difficult.
But yeah, but that being said.
Yeah, yeah, I understand, yeah.
Always make sure that your previous tasks
are also signed off because this is
something that I've observed in the past.
Students would submit something in week
three, they would do the following tasks.
So week 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8,
everything looks good.
And then in week three,
when the tutor goes through it,
you'll find 3 comments and they say, hmm,
it doesn't look good.
resubmit,
what do you think would happen to the
tasks that depend on these tasks?
You'll then have to go back and then
correct everything else, right?
So it's kind of double the work. It's not,
it's not like,
I'm not saying you can't do it,
but just make sure if you do end up going
down that path,
you do understand the concepts,
you understand the tasks,
and you make sure that everything is in
order.
Yeah.
It would be better to not try to complete
the HD task order.
Not really. It's not like that. See,
if you are comfortable with the languages,
right, so C and C, go for it,
but then again,
make sure that you also incorporate all
the feedback that you get, right?
If you try and you know,
squeeze in every single task in one week,
addressing the feedback.
would be much more difficult.
And then again, think about it,
unless you're like an expert in these
languages. I mean,
you won't be learning much if you try to
cram everything in one day.
Yeah,
and always we can adjust all the
expectations, submissions, anytime.
So have a few in the first couple of
Yeah.
weeks, see how it goes.
We certainly encourage people to go way
Yeah.
ahead and we wish to help with that.
And you know,
Yeah.
we are not limited to just the learning
materials.
we can certainly help you to achieve what
you want to achieve,
Yeah.
especially for distinction,
high distinction tasks. If you had a look,
Yeah.
you will realise that these are some
flexible projects that you can choose
Help.
what you want to do.
So if you have a really good idea that
you want to, you want to do,
give it plenty of time, we can, we can
We can,
we're happy actually to get in parts and
Yeah.
help you do that, yeah.
Yep, and remember one more thing, right?
The objective here is not just to get
Teh.
like HD and stop there.
The objective is to learn as much as
possible while doing so, right?
So focus on the learning first, right?
Try to learn as much as possible,
and then apply that learning to your
tasks. That's like the best combination,
because I have seen students who would
just go online. I mean,
We all know what's going on, right?
So we have ChatGPT and all sorts of
online tools. People are just going,
you know,
just prompt an AI to write code for them.
We do not recommend that, right?
It's actually very easy to literally
complete all your tasks in like one day,
but come on,
we've been writing code for 20 years.
We can pick it up in like seconds if it's
AI generated or something else.
Yeah, yeah, it's really, really different.
We could immediately see the difference,
Yeah,
the point I'm trying to make is learn as
yeah.
much as possible.
That's the only thing that's going to
help you.
The tasks are there to solidify your
understanding of those concepts.
Yep.
Yep, thanks, Ben. Let's continue.
Okay, so yeah,
and communication is really important
between the teaching staff and the
students because it is a student centred
model.
We don't teach actually teach anything in
the seminars. We have
We have the guidebook,
which is the field guide,
and you go there and learn what is
provided to you. And in the seminars,
we will do some code demos,
and we leave plenty of time for
one-on-one sessions.
So later you will see that half of the
seminar will be dedicated to admin staff
and the demos of the past level concepts
and the rest of the seminars will be
dedicated to one-on-one helping sessions.
So you get the chance to
to call us and jump in a call with us and
you can ask whatever questions that you
have.
So what you learn is really up to you.
You make the decision of what you want to
learn, what kind of help you want to get,
and we will help.
With that.
That is, that can be done with Help Hub.
Help Hub is dedicated just for that.
So there is a tutor there answering your
questions,
but half of the seminar is also works
like and Help Hub, if that makes sense.
So me and Ben will be here.
until 7.50 P.m.
to answer the questions that we have.
And just one more thing to add that right
now,
Mm.
it's really easy to just wait right till
the end and come and, you know,
ping us a question at 7:49.
It doesn't really work that right,
maybe for the first heavy months until
10:55, but you know,
we ideally would want to wrap it up by
7:50, and then of course,
if you are still...
start with something.
We will give you some pointers,
but you do have other helper sessions
that you can attend to and get your
queries resolved.
Yep, yep, yep.
Get feedback's early,
have one-on-one conversations. Yeah,
each week we have really have plenty of
help us help hub sessions and also these
seminars, and for seminars,
although you are enrolled,
you may be enrolled in this Thursday
seminar,
you are welcome to join the Monday
seminar as well.
You already know the seminar structures
are the same, so...
You can talk to tutors on the Monday
seminar as well. So yeah,
take the opportunity,
ask many questions that you have and jump
in to many, many,
many sessions as you want. Yeah,
hope you like this way of.
teaching and learning. And yeah,
the limitation is that...
That's that you need to you need to rely
on your own,
so you make the you are you are in charge,
so you need to plan your work more more
in detail,
like not not compared to the traditional
way of assignments.
You have two big assignments in one
trimester.
and you target for those two deadlines,
and that's it. But in here,
you have to plan for each week,
each week how many tasks you need to do.
You need to plan for,
give us some time to provide feedback as
well. You need to learn as well.
So there's a lot of things that you need
to do.
as a student,
so a lot of calls that you need to make.
So yeah,
that's it's good and bad in the balance,
but still I will say it's very it's a
very good experience. Yeah.
Yep.
It is a good experience,
but it can be a bit frustrating at times.
The reason for that is because it is
again student-led, right? Teachers,
or any tutor, the unit chair,
nobody will give you an answer directly,
right? Some people might,
but generally you won't get a straight
answer,
but we will give you pointers to get the
answer yourself.
Right, that's what we are aiming for.
Again, with that,
if you're coming from like a traditional,
you know, teacher-centered line,
if that approach,
it might be a bit frustrating because,
you know,
you might expect like an answer or like,
you know,
basically like a straight line to get the
answer. You'll be disappointed.
You might end up, um, you know,
having to do some more thinking yourself,
but we will definitely be there to help
you locate the sponsors yourself.
Yeah, but the fun part is,
I still remember a lot of the times that
we work,
we work together through a solution.
Yeah.
So you will find the answer by yourself,
you know, that's very,
you will end up very happy.
But sometimes it could be very frustrated
because a lot of times you will see minor
minor issues destroy your program,
and then you'll find it's just one comma
or one semicolon that you missed that
makes the corrupts the whole program,
then you probably feel disappointed,
a little bit disappointed at that stage.
But still,
I think it's a lot of fun in there. Yeah,
it's like working in technology.
Yeah, I have something to say for that,
especially, you know, for in IT,
you rely on documentation much.
The way we work is, to summarize,
is basically looking at the
documentations and figure out a way to
implement that in your work. So
This way of teaching,
this way of learning and assessments is
more,
is closer to how you will later work in
the industry and learn how to program.
Yeah, I forgot. Yes,
I forgot semicolon at the end of the line.
Yeah, I know, I understand. Yeah,
that happens A lot. Yeah, well,
the change has changed since last study
in 2010, had a lot.
Yeah, yeah,
we hope that we now have two seminars and
that we hope that gives each student a
little bit more time to interact with us.
Yeah,
so interaction is really important and
we've been running this module,
this way of
learning and teaching for many,
many years, we have experience. So,
it's really, we know how to do that well,
and we know that we need your help to
make this working. So,
it's really important that you initiate
the conversation.
We cannot reach to each one of you saying,
oh, how are you doing? What is your
Where you are at at the moment,
it's only depending on you reaching out
to us and we know what you need and then
we'll provide the guidance.
So it's really important that you work
with us and whatever questions that you
have,
Ask us, and there's no stupid questions,
right?
Sometimes it's really helping other
people that you raise questions.
Right, okay.
So we've already covered that.
So in this student-centered model,
we will set you up for success.
We'll prepare you for success and we'll
provide as many help as we can.
And there are plenty of help that we can
guarantee. And
And we will be 100% very clear what
assessment needs to be done and what
contents need to be learned.
And this will be reiterated every time in
the seminar.
And we will make sure that we provide
constant feedback on your submitted
assessment via OnTrack.
You will see that the feedback that we
provide is not
just, hey, this is past,
you complete this task. No,
we provide constructive feedbacks to
improve where you did well and where you
can improve so you know how you can do
better and what you should keep in doing
that.
So you will notice the difference in the
in the feedback that you get and usually
in the traditional way of teaching,
once you submit an assignment,
then that's it. You get a mark,
then you don't get a lot of feedback on
where you did well and how you can
improve.
So that's the good thing on OnTrack as
well.
And you get this weekly on every task.
So,
in order for us to provide constant
feedback, again,
I need to iterate the importance of
on-time submission, so say...
For example,
if we allow feedbacks on all the tasks
you submitted without time limit,
if someone submitted 20 tasks at the end
of the trimester,
we won't have that enough time frame to
provide feedback on all the tasks.
And then there's no time to allow for any
resubmission, any changes.
So please follow the schedule and submit
tasks on time so we can provide feedback.
Yeah, to add one thing to that one,
I'll give you personal experience.
So we had someone do something similar.
So they basically submitted every single
task literally about two days before we
were marking the portfolios.
And guess what happened? Zero.
I'd say it doesn't work. Like, you know,
you can just submit everything at the end
and avoid all sorts of questionings and
the interviews and.
You know,
just rely on the fact that the answers
are correct.
The problem is there is no way of
validating your answers,
like verifying if you yourself came up
with those answers, right?
So there are certain pitfalls like that,
right? It might sound very attractive.
You know,
you can avoid all sorts of tests and
questions and everything and submit
something at the end.
Teh.
But yeah, it's not gonna help.
Yep, and I want to.
say that for this unit,
it works like this,
but please do cheque because although
every unit now in IT,
the school of IT are using OnTrack,
the rules of OnTrack can be a little bit
different. Because for us, for example,
we do allow tasks to be submitted even
without a feedback,
even without a completion.
Once you submit your portfolio,
all the tasks will be collected and we
will assess them at the end.
But in some of the units,
if you don't submit and complete the task
on time, that task may be failed.
So between different units,
please do cheque the different
requirements for the OnTrack task for us.
For sure,
that we accept all the tasks submitted
before the last day of the of the
trimester.
Yeah,
coming back to the limitation of amount
of times you can get feedback.
So usually we we don't want to limit to
say that, oh, you only get 2 feedbacks,
right?
It really depends on depends on the
situation. For example, if if you.
copy from online sources or do it from AI,
we kick back and say, oh,
you shouldn't do this,
please do on your own,
and you change from Gemini to GPT and
give us another answer. We may say, oh,
2 feedbacks is what you're going to get
for this task.
But if you are really trying this close
to this, we'll see that this close,
Yeah.
just one little more changes than you can
complete a task,
Yeah.
but just one more feedback we need to
give. We will, I promise you,
Yeah.
we'll 100% provide that feedback and hope
you to get a complete.
Yeah.
Get the green tick, yeah.
Yeah,
like when you said like 2 rounds of
feedback,
that's like you are submitting something
three times.
So you submit something the first time,
you get some feedback,
you submit something the second time,
let's say you get another resubmit or
something and you submit it one more time,
right?
So that's three rounds of submission from
your end. Now.
It is possible that you might have really,
really minor things left now.
We don't really want to be that pedantic
and say, oh, well,
there's a spelling mistake.
There's a type over here.
You need to resubmit and fix that. Yeah,
that should be okay.
But if there are like major glaring flaws,
right? I mean, you are supposed to,
for example, use a for loop.
You learn what that is later down the
line.
And you use something else entirely,
and you're like, "Ohh, well, I'm gonna,
I'm not gonna build a Mario game using
ChargePD. Trust me, it has happened,
not really Mario game, but something else.
Yeah, that's a redo, right? So,
for things like that...
Two rounds is plenty,
but if you are trying and we see that you
know there are certain things that you
might be that you might need some more
time or some more pointers to address
minor stuff, that should be okay.
And even then,
when we say rounds of feedback,
we normally mean, you know,
that yellow resubmit thing. If you,
if it's just a discussion with and we're
typing something in comments, yeah.
Tell me,
you don't really have to worry too much
about that,
as long as you address those points.
Yeah, so on top of the resubmits,
we also have two tasks status called
discussion and demonstration.
Like Ben has mentioned that if there's
something minor,
we probably won't bother you to resubmit.
We'll probably just ask one of,
ask some following questions.
So you answer them on OnTrack,
then that's it.
So we try to make these things as easy as
for both of us.
So don't worry too much about the
limitation of round of feedbacks that
you're going to have.
Trust us and just leave it to us.
Do the best that you can,
and the rest will be on.
on us.
As long as you keep the bonding and keep
the communication with us,
that should be all good.
Help.
Yep,
so another question: when looking at the
task listed on OnTrack,
should we be aiming to complete them in
vertical top to bottom orders as well as
time urgency? Yes and no. Again,
that's a call that you need to make,
but our, because we've seen this a lot,
that please make sure that you finish all
the past tasks.
Jess.
at least because we will see students who
finish their distinction task and then
they miss to past tasks,
then they are in trouble. Yeah,
because we, yeah,
in trouble is literally in trouble. Yeah,
Big trouble.
so you probably don't want to end up in
there.
It's a hard decision for us as well
because it's really painful because you
see
They are doing so well,
and they are being creative in the
distinction task. They did,
they did a beautiful game, right?
I want to,
I want if if they publish the game,
I had to pay for it, but...
Yeah, I mean, Jacob,
to answer that question right,
Yeah.
past tasks again, it starts off with pass,
a pass, credit distinction,
high distinction. Each of those tasks,
each of those levels of those tasks will
have a different level of difficulty.
Pass would be the easiest compared to the
others, right?
Compared to high distinction,
it will be the easiest.
and you need to complete every single
pass task as a minimum to pass, right?
So don't get stuck on a high distinction
when you know you have 3 pass tasks
pending. That's a recipe for disaster.
Try to complete all the P tasks,
then move on to credit.
Now that being said,
it does not mean that you aim to finish
all the pass tasks and then you start the
credit task because then you might not
have time or you might have like an
Yeah.
overdue submission that way.
follow the timelines that's given in each
of those tasks. If you go to OnTrack,
I think Alex can show it to you.
You'll see each of those tasks will have
Yep.
a recommendation on when you should
attempt,
aim to start a task and when you should
submit that task.
Aim to complete the task, right?
When you say complete,
it should be signed off.
Alex can show that to you in a bit, but...
Yep, I'll show you in a bit. Yep.
Let's go back to the slide.
Okay, sorry. Let's go back to the slides.
I'll later,
after we have a little bit of finish the
slides first,
and we'll give a little bit of break and
give me some time to log in to all this,
Yeah.
and I will show you guys. And we do, yeah,
coming back to the question,
it's a really good question about the
learning resources.
We have the seminars,
we have the Help Hubs,
and we have the Teams channel.
So in the Teams channel,
you will see the discussion forums where
you can ask questions,
and the students can answer questions in
there as well.
And the official learning material that
we are using is this programmer's guide.
So in this programme guide,
you have all the required resources that
you need and on the tasks.
So you will find,
you don't need to remember the link here.
Go into OnTrack and download the task
sheet.
I believe the link will be on every task.
So
On the tasks, it will say,
read which chapter of read which chapter
of the programmer's field guide and which
section which activities to finish.
So we will rely purely on this
programmer's field guide.
That is the material that we are using.
KY.
And for the test,
so we won't ask you to use any IDEs.
It will be closed book for on-campus
student. For online student,
we cannot really control how close book,
how close the book, your book are closed.
So we cannot control that.
It will be followed up with an interview.
with the tutors.
So it will be paper-based.
The test will be paper-based.
You will be asked to answer some
questions,
writing a very little bit of code
snippets.
It may sound very outdated because now we
are in the vibe coding age, but we just,
it's more for.
concepts rather than testing with your
syntax, if that makes sense.
And before the tests,
we will hand out practise tests,
so you know exactly what will happen for
real tests.
It will be very similar to practise test,
and we will go through.
The practise test during the seminar
before the test happens, so...
Yeah, what exactly is Help Hub?
Help Hub is a session that is dedicated
to answer questions.
So there will be a tutor there in the
scheduled time and you go into the
meeting room like this.
It is a Teams meeting and there will be a
queue. It is first come, first serve,
right? Queue is not exactly.
Well...
That's how we met, right, Alex?
Yeah, exactly. Yeah,
that's my first Help Hub session is with
Ben. Yeah, that's amazing.
That's the first time I saw people debug
THA.
my code. I was like, oh my God.
And it's a logic error.
It's not a syntax error.
It's a logic error.
So I remember it's really clearly, yeah.
So.
So, 2020, 2019 is a long time ago.
2021, yeah.
Tough three.
Yes, yeah, and,
and if it's in SIT one or two, so...
So yeah,
that's a really helpful resource about
Help Hub.
I believe you guys will join a lot of
them.
And you will have a chance to take part
as well.
So if you targeting for distinction and
above,
one of the tasks will be helping others,
not helping others, active engagers. So.
It requires you to actively engage in
this unit.
One of the methods is to become a Help
Help volunteer.
So you will be there and answer other
students' questions.
So it will be a very interesting
experience.
So I encourage you guys to go to the Help,
attend them, and see if you enjoy that.
And you can see
Um,
even see if you enjoy being a Help Hop
tutor.
Yes, yeah, yeah, so sorry. Yeah,
it's now called Active Engager because we
don't want to,
we want this credit to be given to
everyone who engaged rather than just
helping. So engaging doesn't mean
just helping people to do their task.
Engaging also means you ask questions,
Yeah.
right?
That is another way of engaging here.
Yep.
And when you say helping someone,
but it doesn't necessarily mean you help
them by giving them an answer.
That's not really helping anyone.
It's more around,
let's say someone stuck with a problem.
If they ask a question,
you might give some pointers.
Look at what's happening over here.
You can use the answer concept to address
this problem. So
If give them pointers,
that's like a perfect example of
engagement in this unit.
But we would never, ever,
ever encourage you to say, oh, well,
this is a copy of my code. Use that.
Please don't do that.
Yeah, and you will do actually,
this is really fun.
You will find the challenge of trying to
explain a concept rather than giving out
an answer. This is really,
really fun and really helpful. Yeah,
and students are very nice,
and you will meet new friends and all.
Yeah.
Yeah, the thing is like, you know,
you'll only be able to explain a concept
if you understand it really well, right?
And work the other way around as well.
If you try to explain a concept, well,
that also satisfies your understanding,
unless of course you are wrong.
But then again,
it doesn't matter if you're wrong.
There are people who will provide some
insights and then you'll be able to learn
and correct your mistakes.
So don't think there's anything, you know,
there are any stupid answers. Trust me,
there are none. Everything is fine.
If you make a mistake,
we are all here to help you out.
So you don't really have to hesitate,
right?
Yep, and Kathleen,
engaging with teaching staff count as
engagement. Yes,
if you go to the task sheet,
Of course.
you will find that there are certain
evidence that we accept as the evidence
of engaging, because at the end of the
the trimester, when that task is due,
you are required to submit an evidence of
engaging.
So that includes attending 2 seminars,
engaging with staff,
but also please make sure that you
balance everything.
Not only.
engaging with the staff.
Because we do really want you to be able
to express what you have learned,
as Ben has explained,
Yeah.
that why we think helping is a part of it.
We decide that helping is not all of it,
but helping must be a part of it.
It means that if you understand the
concepts well,
Yep.
even though it's just basic,
maybe past level tasks,
other people may struggling and you're
able to help them by explaining that
Yeah, yeah.
concept.
And it also means that you understand
that concept well, right Ben?
Yeah, and yes, and to add to that, right,
Kathleen,
we all were absolute beginners at one
point,
which brings me back to the point that I
was trying to make earlier. There are no,
you know,
right or wrong answers in that sense,
right?
You don't really have to worry about
getting something wrong, because, well,
they all made mistakes.
You look at someone's...
question, right?
You understand the question and try to
answer it the best you can.
And while doing so, trust me,
you'll be surprised how much you might
know, right? If you, let's say,
you look at a question and you are a
little bit confused,
you might end up kind of researching that
and finding an answer for yourself.
You might learn something new.
So engagement doesn't necessarily mean
that you have to give the correct answer
every single time.
You can actually dig up some resources
online. You can find some pointers,
help them out. And in that process,
you'll also end up learning something new.
Yep. And to all the questions,
I will say yes,
engaging with all sorts of engaging is
engaging,
but making sure that you have a good
balance of each part,
not only engage in the Help Hub,
not only engaging with the feedbacks,
Also,
engaging in the discussion channels and
with other students.
Is that a big test? OK, so no, no, no,
don't give an answer,
No, it's not.
don't give an answer,
you'll find out in week 5 and week 9.
Yes, yes, it's a, I believe,
I think it will be easy for you to be
Of.
Yeah.
honest. Yeah, it'll be, yeah, yeah,
it's really straightforward. You a lot,
It will be easy,
it should be straightforward.
Book.
because we give this practise test and we
have the feedback is that people are
surprised because the practise test is so
close to real test.
Yeah.
They were surprised, like, why is so, oh,
it's so close.
I thought it would be something harder.
Or so, you know,
as long as you follow the seminars,
follow the tasks, you will be fine.
Yeah, I'll tell you what, right? I mean,
the question itself is really,
really hard to answer because how do you
define big? Right?
Are you talking about the number of
questions, right? I mean, you can have 5,
000 questions and if you can literally
answer them in like a millisecond, well,
Okay.
that's not really a big test, is it?
You can also have one single question and
it might take you 2 hours to answer.
So it depends, right?
Don't really have to worry about how big
the test is. Just focus on the concepts.
Don't let the fear of how big a test is
kind of deter you from learning something.
It should be easy. Don't worry about it.
Yeah,
and the time would be based on previous
experience, because the world is changing,
we are updating ourselves as well.
In the previous trimesters,
we have two hours for the test.
Usually you don't need that long.
So that's probably give you a rough idea
of how
big it is.
So we usually give plenty of time.
So if we give two hours,
it's maybe just 40 minutes to an hour
amount of work.
So once you get more familiar with the
OnTrack task,
you will probably have a feeling of how
many work is required in 40 minutes or
one hour.
So yeah, in week, we will, week 4,
we'll be covering the practise test and
stay tuned.
Make sure you attend this seminar.
Yeah.
And once again, I hate to say this,
but last trimester, last trimester,
27% of students
did not pass as a T102 and not attending
seminars and help hubs is the number one
reason why they failed is I would say to
say not attending seminars or help hubs,
I would say less lacking of communication
with the teaching team,
missing that connexion with the teaching
team is the number one reason why we
Yeah.
failed.
So for anyone who's been here for the
unit,
they should know how much we devote
ourselves to make students pass this unit.
So anything, let us know beforehand.
Don't, because of this OnTrack schedule,
Yeah.
You don't pass this unit just by
bypassing that test in week night, right?
Help.
It's a weekly accumulating process,
so don't leave things last minute and
Yeah.
keeping that connexion with us, yeah.
Yeah,
but I also just want to say one more
thing, and one more thing to that is that,
you know,
you're not just looking at this unit in
isolation,
you're also applying it to the entire
course.
So SID 102 is kind of like a prerequisite
for those as well, if I'm not wrong,
right?
So you'll be learning the programming
Yeah, yeah.
concepts over here,
which you'll be applying in data
structures and algorithms,
you'll be going through SID 232 object
oriented programming, and then
and so on.
So what you learn over here will actually
form the foundation of what you're going
to learn in the upcoming trimesters.
So make the most of it.
Try to engage with the tutors,
with the teaching staff as much as you
can, because the more we know you,
the better it is for you,
because we'll be able to give you better
feedback. Because trust me, otherwise,
it's just going to be a very generic
feedback that you get.
And it's not really going to help you.
You might just complete all your past
tasks and that might be the end of it.
But is that really going to help you in
the future? Well,
that's something that you have to decide,
right? So the more you engage,
the better it is.
Yeah, then, and this is another,
this is only something that you should
bear in mind that there is a risk to fail
this unit,
so please work hard and try to keep up,
keep up with the schedule. Alrighty. So,
Yeah.
in the uni, you are not just learning,
you are also
making friends and building community,
make connections.
So there are quite a few of Deakin
community that you can join.
We have the Deakin eSport Association.
You may, you guys may enjoy that.
I don't because I'm really fragile.
I hate, I hate,
English is not my first language.
The first time I learned the word,
I learned
language from here and there.
The first time I learned the word noob is,
you know, where it's coming from.
So I quit playing League of Legends,
you know,
and they only allow me to learn that one
word because the rest words are masked.
They are star signs.
So you don't know what they're talking
about. Yeah, no,
no League of Legends for me. Yeah, no.
Yeah, so yeah,
you won't find me in the eSports
Association, but if you enjoy that,
make good friends.
They are really nice people, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, to answer you, Jacob,
now is it fine later on to send messages
or emails to teaching staff? Yes, it is,
but do keep in mind that not all teaching
staff would be working full-time on this
unit. Right now, myself, for example,
I actually work in the industry and I
work here part-time. It's like...
point to FTE. So if you,
let's say if you are assigned to me and
you send me a message,
I might not get back to you by the same
evening. It might be the next day.
It can be something else.
It is perfectly fine,
and we will definitely try to get back to
you as early as possible.
A better approach would be to, you know,
if you have any question,
Around the content, like,
let's say you're stuck with the program,
we would recommend engaging with your
peers, right? So, on Teams,
you do have channels for details,
you have HD tasks, right?
You have a channel for the credit task
discussions for past tasks.
If you're stuck with setup,
you have another channel for that,
so you can engage with all these,
you know.
all these channels and other students. If,
let's say,
you really want to get in touch with us,
of course,
we are more than happy to help you out.
Another way you can communicate with us
is through the OnTrack comment sections.
So if it's something about this
particular task,
you can ask us questions over there.
Alex will show you how that works.
Um, I hope that answers your question.
Because the best way to go about that
would actually depend on what you're
trying to address, right?
What answer you're trying to get.
If it's something about a task,
reminding on that particular task would
be more helpful. If it's about, you know,
a programme or helping general a certain
concept, communicating in channels.
Dedicated to those categories of tasks
would actually be better if it's about
more about like admin stuff, right?
Something about the unit, something about,
you know,
not having access to certain things,
directly communicating would be better.
If it's something about grades,
contacting the ULHAQ would, you know,
would help you better, so...
It all depends on what you're after.
Okay,
so the specific channels I share my
Yeah.
screen for Teams.
So we have,
I hope you guys all are all enrolled in
this teaching.
I didn't see on this Teams channel,
I didn't see any external users with
their own emails. So if not,
please let us know.
We will enrol your student e-mail,
student account into this Teams channel
for SST 102.
So you see there are different discussion
Um,
forums and you see people are already
posting questions and in there,
for example.
Liam asked question about can't make.
NET project files and there are a lot of
already a lot of answers around them and
the teaching team is monitoring the
channel as well.
So you will give you will have an answer
pretty much pretty quick.
So this question has been raised at 6pm
and they got answers.
At 7:30 and and which there are 19
replies before, so it's actually quicker,
it's async,
it's not happening in the real time,
it's not like sending messages and get a
get a reply,
but it's actually happening pretty quick,
maybe quicker than than you thought, and.
We have the past task discussions,
we have credit task discussions,
D and HD task discussions.
We also have this announcement that just
you are not allowed to post anything,
but it just for important announcement
you can find all the information in here.
And we also have this
Peer assisted study program,
which I believe is the 7 PM session,
the past program.
You will find it in your unit site.
And we also have this setting up
discussion channel,
which I believe some of you may have
setting up
issues and we have this setting up guide
that you have a video walkthrough of the
setup, installing issues and all.
You will find a lot of important useful
resources there. I hope that makes sense.
Just to add one more thing, Jeremy. Yes,
I do work in the screen, but again,
you can directly get in touch with me,
but yeah, like of course,
if you want to call me,
that might not really work during
business hours because I might be engaged
in something else. But of course,
Yeah.
we try our level best to answer as early
as possible.
And the same applies to other tutors as
well.
It's not,
it might not be the same with everyone,
but of course, you know,
you can contact Alex,
you can contact Aaron or anyone else,
whoever's assigned to you. But again,
who that person is will actually depend
on what you're trying to solve.
As we said earlier,
if it's about a particular task,
if you're stuck with something,
there are channels specific to that.
You just metallic is short, right?
And trust me,
you might actually get more answers from
students even before the teaching team
can answer. So that might be easier.
If it's something to do with the unit
Yep.
management, of course, you can come to us.
If it's something about grades or
something else, let's say,
that's actually very common, right?
you need an extension, something happened,
if you know, it happened, life happens,
if someone gets sick, you know,
there might be some other incidents,
you know,
there might be something else that you're
going through and you need more time. Hey,
you can always contact us,
you can contact the unit chair for that.
So again,
depends on what you're trying to solve.
Yeah,
and depending on how quickly you want to
get the answers,
so we might answer a bit slowly.
You might find some tutors may come back
to you quicker,
and you might find the discussion forum
works quicker,
whichever suits you the best.
Yeah, we're always happy to help, right?
So, if I mean,
you see me like like a zombie at times,
you might see my reply at 3 A.m. at night.
Yeah, you never know.
Yeah,
it's very typical for us to get back to
you on midnight because we don't sleep as
SIT people. Yep.
Yeah, I like, I have a two-year-old,
so yeah, I barely get any sleep.
Two-year-old.
Yeah, okay.
So let's pause it at the moment.
Let's give us a bit of break for 10
minutes. We'll come back at 7.
20 and we will go through the
installations for the Splash Kit.
And yeah, that's it.
If you have any questions,
please raise it in the chat.
We'll be looking at the chat and we'll
give you
An answer, all right,
and see you in a bit. Thank you.
All right.
Okay, I think break time is over, fellas.
We'll just wait for Alex to join.
Yep.
Hey there.
Alex, there you are.
Cool, let's.
Let's restart.
So getting started for this week,
Yeah.
the task to do is to make sure that you
have access to OnTrack. At the moment,
it seems a bit of downtime for loading.
It usually comes back pretty soon.
Yeah.
So don't worry about it,
but make sure you do it today and start
on task P1.
and please read task sheets slowly and
carefully.
There are the requirements included in
this unit, the expected learning outcomes,
and your schedules based on different
tiers, different target grades.
So making sure you read all of them and
sign at a page where you need to sign and
fill in the details where you are
required to fill in and submit the
correct.
the correct document that we require.
So that's a first bit of taste of OnTrack
task.
So please make sure that you do check.
If you don't have access, let us know.
And at the first week,
we also would like you to set up
by week one.
So what we need to do is to install VS
Code and the splash here library.
So if you want to use another IDE,
that's a code editor,
that's perfectly fine,
but our recommendation is VS Code at the
moment because all the...
installations and guide because this is a
first year unit.
We try to be detailed as detailed as
possible.
We don't want to give you a rough guide,
guide you, okay, go on,
write one of the codes.
We want to give you a step-by-step
detailed guide.
So that's why we stick to VS Code for.
For the ground work, so if you,
especially if you're new to programming,
we recommend you to, yeah,
install VS Code. If you are,
if you don't hate it,
then I hope you hope you like it.
I work in the industry, right,
in a heavyweight of a company and we use
VS Code. So, yes, it's not a tiny,
tiny thing that you can just, you know,
Ah, that's good, yeah.
push to the side.
VS Code is actually very powerful if you
know what you're doing.
Yeah, if you look, you know,
there's now there's notepad plus plus,
you don't have to torture yourself.
Notepad. No, you don't use Notepad.
You use the Wim Editor. Come on.
Yeah, Vim, yeah, Vim for the win. Yeah,
that's the worst thing. Okay, no, no,
I don't have any,
but Vim is evolving as well.
I believe Vim doesn't look like 10 years
ago, right? Yeah. So, no,
Alright, that's good.
don't do it to yourself.
It's too hard on yourself.
Oh.
I hope you treat yourself well. So, yeah,
VS Code, it's not too bad.
Not too shabby. I hope you like it,
and we install that and install the
splash key library.
Is splash key library is the library that
we use.
It makes the syntax easier to understand,
and it has a lot of fun parts. You got a,
there's a lot of functions written.
For designing images, animations,
and games,
and I hope it's multimedia functions,
so I hope you like it,
and also our learning materials are built
on that, so get those two installed, and.
Have C and C able to be executed,
so you don't need to worry about that;
those will be part of the task that you
are required to submit. So,
if you go on on task P2,
there are guides and which chapter to
read on programmer's field guide,
and you will, once you follow the...
follow the reading and you will figure
out how to do this.
So there's an all guided journey,
so you don't need to worry about that
doing on your own. So ideally,
if once you've installed the Splash Kit
and VS Code and run some codes,
basically you have already finished task
P2. So ideally,
especially for people targeting a higher
grade,
P1 and P2 submitted are your target for
this week. All right. And to get started,
Yeah.
you can introduce yourself to us and
catch up. I already know a few of you.
Oh, yeah. Alex, I mean,
maybe we can start with like showing the
Sorry, Ben.
programmer's field guide and then how do
you install stuff?
Mm.
Because there are a couple of students
over here who are completely lost.
Yu.
So I think it'll be a good demo if you
can do that.
Yu.
Sure, yeah,
we will jump on to the programmers field
guide. The V1 version, Ben,
could you please double cheque if it's
still working at the moment?
The way one version is,
I'm just sharing a link over here.
Then you can take a look. Hang on. Oh,
wait.
Yeah.
I constantly switch between a Mac and a
Windows machine.
I'm using the wrong shortcuts over here.
And yes,
it was Flash get developed by Deakin
University. It was developed at Deakin.
or Swinburne,
I'm not entirely sure which one. I mean,
it was developed by Andrew Kane.
He's the person you'll see in the field
guide.
I think he started this unit as well,
and also he started OnTrack. Fun fact,
it was actually his PhD project.
But.
Yeah.
Okay,
because I don't think the V1 version is
Yeah.
working.
Alright, so you, you can,
you can cheque out, try that link.
I'm not able to visit the link or visit
the link that I just shared.
Uh, that's the link on the slides.
Let me quickly share this slide.
Okay.
Thing on the slides.
Ohh.
This last time I checked the V1 version
that is used to work.
Good.
Yes, we want the programmers,
but you can just type it in.
Ohh.
But yeah,
so Splash Kid was developed initially and
This.
then we kept on adding new features.
A lot of people did contribute to it.
I mean, mostly it was Andrew Kane.
There were other people that you,
of course, you don't know. But yeah,
it was like a big collaborative effort.
Same thing with OnTrack.
It used to be called Doubtfire back in
the day.
So yeah,
the V1 link I don't think is working at
the moment, but don't worry.
The ones you find online, yeah,
that works too. I'll share my screen.
And you will find a...
The links are OnTrack,
so don't worry about not using the
correct link for that.
So following OnTrack,
everything will be there. And anything,
if it's not working,
post a message there and we will keep you
guys updated.
So I'm using a Windows machine,
so I'm going to demo with using the
Windows machine.
There are two ways to install Splash Kit
and the...
The VS code, so you can use MYS MSYS2,
which is another terminal,
and install that to your machine,
or use Windows subsystem of Linux with
Ubuntu,
so both are the ways that you can you can
use.
I will be demonstrating with these MYS2
approach,
which I've been using it for years.
I prefer this way,
but it's really up to you which one you
would like to use.
And there's our guides for virtual
machines,
and also there's an installation
troubleshooting chapter,
which is really important. You can...
Well,
you can actually find a lot of the
troubleshootings from here, so...
We will see,
and also you can reach out to us. So,
firstly...
If you already have Splash Kit installed,
I doubt that, so we'll skip that.
If you do have Splash Kit installed
before,
you can run this SKM update and you can
skip this installation Splash Kit
globally step. But I doubt that you have,
we just stop.
start fresh.
So first to do is to install this MSYS2
terminal.
So there's a video showing you how to do
that. We can do the step-by-step guide.
So the first thing you need to do is
follow this guide,
is download the installer from the
official MSYS2 website. So click on those.
I would use
A new tab.
and find the installer.
So it depends on which chip,
which operation system you are using.
You may use x86 operating system or you
may use ARM64.
So most of the case you will be using the
x86
operating system and you can just click
on that and it will download it for you.
So, for me, if I click on that,
it will showing I'm downloading stuff and.
Just wait until it's done and you can run
it.
Yeah, and click Run.
Now, on Monday,
I had one student with one big question
around which one to download. Now,
that actually depends on your laptop.
B.
If you are using a Mac, MacBook,
MacBook Air, MacBook Pro,
Yu.
you don't necessarily,
you don't really have to download any of
this,
except perhaps for Splash Kid and maybe
the export tools.
The rest is already provided by the OS.
For Windows,
it depends on what CPU your system uses,
right? For ARM, for the later, you know,
lighter versions of these laptops that we
have, right, with the ARM chips,
you have the latter version.
For anything that's Intel or AMD based,
you'll be downloading the X86 X64 version.
So just keep that in mind,
because if you if you download the
Yeah.
package for a different CPU architecture,
it might it won't install.
Yeah.
Thank you, Ben.
And this is the setup and you just click
next for the installation folder.
So the default folder is under the C
drive, MSY 64.
Make sure that you are using C drive
rather instead of using the OneDrive link.
I know some of the new PCs they may just
set up, especially for Windows, they set
set you up with the OneDrive and then
everything goes to OneDrive.
So making sure that you have installed
this under C drive.
This also listed in the field guide.
So if you go back to the field guide,
you will see that it alerts you to use
the default install.
path. So it's CMSY 64.
Using other paths may cause issues,
not a big deal,
but it will just be easier because we
have automated scripts to everything.
So please install that to the C drive and
click on.
Next, so MAY was already existed,
so you just go to the next step and wait
until it's finished.
Okay.
So...
I'll give a couple of minutes for you to
finish that installation if you are going
on with that.
And once it's successful,
you should be able to see.
You have a list of you,
you have a list of terminals installed,
so let me go share all of those.
Just one second. Just hold patient.
So if the installation is successful,
you should be able to see all those
terminals installed in your computer.
So if you,
I'll share my other screen instead.
So we can see all of this. So, oh,
you can see. Okay.
So click search and click MSYS2.
If you search for that,
you will see all those different
terminals. So please use the blue one.
And it's just easier to say it's the blue
one.
All right.
Okay.
So...
The recommendation is to ping the
terminal to the taskbar. So,
what you can do is to go to this MS YS2
and right click.
You can pin to start or pin to taskbar.
So, if you pin to start,
you will see it go to your step menu,
and if you pin to taskbar, you will see...
it's been added to the taskbar.
So it's up to you. It's not mandatory.
It's just easier for you to find that.
But later,
it will all be integrated into VS Code.
So don't worry too much if you can't do
this. Yeah. So
Now,
what we're going to do is to open this
terminal and right-click on the app icon
on the taskbar and pin to taskbar, and.
We do, we do the automatic setup,
so we have one script that will install
the following application and tools.
It includes Visual Studio Code,
the extensions that will require, and the.
NET SDK that we require,
and Splash Kit Library. Also,
it will install Git and the compilers
that will later.
needs needed to compile the C code.
So the first step is to open the terminal.
So we go to the terminal that we just
pinged.
And we...
Open the terminal using run as
administrator.
Maybe I'll just show it easier in here.
So right click and run as administrator.
So it will pump you a message saying,
do you want this,
allow this app from unknown publisher to
make changes to a device and please click
yes.
So it will open.
the terminal that looks like this.
This will be the name of your computer.
This will be the name of the terminal.
Make sure in here you see the icon is
blue and in here it is saying main W64.
All right. And then
What we need to do is to run the
following command: To run the following
command,
we just need to copy and paste this line
of code,
and we can use Control C to copy it,
and we can use right click to copy it.
Both work, and
In the MLS2 terminal,
we cannot do Control C and Control V.
If I use Control V here,
you will see nothing happens.
And if I click enter or click something,
you will see some special characters
being pasted here. So Control V is not,
the shortcut is not working.
You can use the right click. Yeah,
it's actually shift insert,
Shift inside.
so it's not control V like what we
usually do.
So you can either use shift plus insert
or right click your mouse and click paste
in here. And once this has been pasted,
and you click enter to run it.
And you will see a list of commands being
executed. You just need to wait.
If it pumps up something for you to
confirm, you just press Y. But for me,
because I've got all this installed
already, so it should show some failed
Prompts.
Had to decline my admin.
But.
Alrighty, so for you,
it might take 5 to 10 minutes to finish
the installation.
If in case that fails,
we also have a menu installation guide,
just a bit, so you see this menu steps.
So if that fails,
follow the manual steps instead.
All right.
KAINE.
So...
Once you saw the installation complete,
and what we do is to restart our terminal.
By restarting,
it's just killing this window and start a
new one.
So we start another one,
remember to run as an administrator.
And we have it.
So we will do one command to verify that
we have installed the Splash Kit
successfully. So you can see the guide,
it's saying that run the command SKM to
cheque Splash Kit is installed correctly.
Okay, so we can do SKM.
We'll simply type in SKM and hit enter.
So you will see a message saying that
Splash Kit is installed successfully.
That means your installation is
successful.
A lot of students actually get confused
with the second part, missing SKM command.
That's because SKM takes more parameters.
So if you can just type in SKM help,
Yeah.
I mean, you can just show them.
Yep.
Yeah.
So,
it gives you gives you the the this
syntax that you you can you can the
parameters that you can use and to put in
the commands to run from splash key
library. So, once you hit SKM,
what we want to see is just that first
line.
Already?
Then what we do is to cheque the
integrated terminal in Visual Studio Code.
That is an important step,
because otherwise you need to each time
you need to go to the terminal to compile
and run your code.
So we just want it to be integrated into
Visual Studio Code. So.
If we go to Visual Studio Code.
And with that set up, because we have the.
..
script running and we go to terminal and
we start a new terminal and you should be
able to see this MG main W64 being
installed. So being used in here.
If it's not successful,
you should see a PowerShell like this.
So that means.
the integration of the MS YS2 is not
successful. If you see this MING W64,
it means that it is successful.
Just keeping just keeping in mind guys
now,
All right.
if you're using again a Mac or a Linux
machine,
this you won't need to do that because
you already have an excellent terminal.
For Windows user users, unfortunately,
you have PowerShell or Bash,
which might not, command prompt actually,
which will not give you
Most of the commands I need to run in
this case, right?
So you need entries to make GW 64.
Okay, so, GANESH,
you have a code not found issue.
Would you mind doing some screenshots and
provide more information?
And.
If you have time,
if you have time off of this,
maybe we can do a quick call and then see
what's going on, but...
Yeah, yeah, well, maybe, yeah,
we'll jump that, yeah.
Yeah, I doubt we'll have time,
but because it's already 741. But Ganesh,
M.
Yeah.
like if you have already installed
everything following the guide,
following the programmer's guide,
it should work. If not, just again,
make sure you go back through the steps
and see if you have missed anything.
Yeah, alrighty,
so we come back to the guide.
It is saying, once you finished,
you can go to using MYS OOI 2 section for
more information about accessing files in
your drive, and if any error happens,
please see.
This installation troubleshooting,
and we have these specific issues,
and you can choose if you have,
if your issues are not covered by these
steps, like restart computer,
disable antivirus,
or search the issue online,
if everything doesn't work.
You can move to this section and try to
find which way of installation you use.
Yep.
For example, if I use this MS YS2,
I click in here.
Yep.
Yeah,
and that actually takes you directly to
So I have these issues. Yep.
the Splashkit documentation.
So if you can go to Splashkit.io, Alex,
Mm.
maybe open a new tab and you open that.
It actually has pretty much all that
Yeah, sure.
Splashkit.io.
M.
We initially used to show the site and
also by the way,
splash skin appears to be up. Oh sorry,
OnTrack appears to be up if you want to
open that.
Yeah.
Oh, you OnTrack is back.
Yes, looks like it.
I may need to delete my,
clear my browser history.
Yeah.
Uh, I saw slash kid and all seven days,
seven days should be fine,
delete lots of data, and to open up,
maybe open up, kill this.
Mm.
Loading.
It doesn't matter if you use Chrome or
Mozilla. I mean, honestly,
it doesn't really matter. Splash, sorry,
OnTrack is just an online tool, right?
It's just a portal where you upload your
submissions and you get feedback on.
What matters more is you have a proper
setup for you to write code and debug.
I have compiled one, your code,
debug stuff, and you know,
learn how to write code in my space.
Yep, and.
Browse is openly matter.
Yep.
history, yeah, clear history clicks.
I still suspect mine is cached something,
but it doesn't look like so.
If I use incognito, it doesn't go there.
Mm.
I'm not too sure. Okay,
so on the splash kit.
io is the official documentation,
so we'll also see those troubleshooting
and we can also find.
The so see, there's some issues there,
SKM not found, not found,
or code not found,
that may be your issue there,
and there are some solutions,
maybe missing the path variable and all.
If this doesn't solve your issue,
you can either...
ask questions into the setup discussion
channel or join one of the Help Up
sessions.
And just one more thing, right?
If you are looking through the
documentation for whatever you have in
Splash Script, this is actually a really,
really good source. Something I've said,
maybe you can click on any one of those
links, Alex, maybe animation, audio,
camera, something. Anyway, maybe camera,
Which one? Yeah, sure. Um, camera.
right?
So you have examples in different
languages, right? So C, Python, Pascal.
C#, so, you know,
for whatever you're trying to do,
you can actually find good documentation
here. We will be using slash get anywhere,
right? So, it's really handy.
Yu.
So, this,
you can you can also bookmark this slash
if you need. I'll just do that now. OK,
done. Cool.
Yeah.
I'll stop sharing my screen.
We have a couple of more minutes.
If you guys,
do you guys have any general questions in
terms of the admin stuff before we wrap
up this session?
What should you do if you can get you
OnTrack load now? Unfortunately,
OnTrack is acting up a bit now.
I've noticed that this acting up since
last since the last year, right? So,
not entirely sure what's causing it.
It might be deployment issue,
might be something else,
but unfortunately, I just wanted this.
We might have to just wait,
wait a while and try again.
Um, GANESH, you have a question?
Feel free to mute yourself.
Yeah, is it still installing MSYS to sell?
Yep.
I tried to like run the code again,
so it is still running.
M.
Depending on internet connection,
so don't worry about it,
as long as you follow the instructions,
it should be good. Now,
if you're running it from, you know,
from the campus,
if you have a very high speed connection,
it might take you like under 5 minutes,
but again, there are many, many,
many different variables.
So after this,
do we have to install like VS code or
anything or it automatically?
Now, it depends on what you're doing.
If it's installing it manually, then yes,
you have to do, you have to install,
download and install all those tools
manually,
but if you're using that automated script,
it should do it all for you.
Like I previously I had installed VS Code
and it it was showing that it was
Okay. Okay.
automatically doing something with VS
Code too.
Okay, so in here, okay, so in that case,
what I would recommend you do is, if it,
Nice and still.
you know, once a script stops running,
you can go and just verify if you have
all the required tools. Now,
more specifically,
if you have Splash Get installed,
because it can be a bit pretty quick,
just type in the type in a scan,
a Splash Get Manager.
It should give you some output and once
you have that, you'll know it's installed.
And of course,
then you can start with the VS Code.
Once you compile the program, of course,
then you'll know for sure if your
installation was successful. But yeah,
like if you're using the script,
it should be all good.
Yeah,
so this is what Ben is saying for
Time.
verification.
So if you type in SKM and click enter,
you have this splash kit is installed
successfully.
It means that this group has been run
successfully.
But.
Because like it's still running the sales,
this thing. So can I just open a new one,
Mm.
new command?
Now, if you still,
if you still installing,
it could be still downloading and
installing, leave it there, yeah.
Yeah, like maybe 30% more, it says 70%.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, 70%,
then you have 30% more.
You wait until it's finished and see what
happens.
And if it's not coming at the first time,
you close this terminal and open another
instance, open another one, and verify it.
So sometimes you need to restart a
terminal for the changes to apply. So.
Once it's done, close your terminal,
open a new one and enter SKM to see if
you have this first line displaying.
If that is showing successfully installed,
Yeah.
that works. All right.
Because I'm like very much like new to
this OnTrack thing,
Yep.
like I have three more other units,
like they have like proper resources,
like things,
but I couldn't find much of the things in
here.
Yeah, it's not,
I believe if you download your task sheet
from OnTrack,
it will lead you to the programmer's
field guide and it will include which
chapter to read. For example,
for this one,
you should give you in task P2,
it will say, oh, go to this chapter,
read this,
and finish installation and all.
That's what you need.
So I have to follow the link that Ben
sent, uh, and like Teams message earlier.
Yeah, yeah,
you can follow that and also it should be
included on your OnTrack task sheet.
Okay.
So, like,
basically everything will be through this
Splastic and VS Code, and that that link,
that's all.
Yeah, yeah, that's it, yeah.
Yep, and for...
I'll just wait and...
Yep, just wait. I mean,
it shouldn't really take too long.
If you start off one second, let us know,
but it should it should be pretty quick.
KURT, once and so on,
do we use in VS Code? Yes,
and how do you do that? Well,
you need to configure it if you follow
this installation guide.
I'm going to share this link with you
over here. Again,
Yep.
it's all part of your programmer's field
guide, right?
So if you go into the appendix and
installation,
you have all the steps that you can
follow,
and right at the bottom you have VS Code
extensions that you can, you know,
you can read upon,
and then it should give you like all the
instructions that you need.
So, that includes extensions for C,
Dev Kit, any, you know,
the IntelliSense features.
It'll all be there, and of course,
you know,
for configuring your VS code instance to
use this new shell.
No, no, no problem.
It's actually very easy to kind of skip
over stuff, right? I mean,
there's so much being shared right now.
Don't worry about it.
Yep. So to answer the question,
the script will download both Splash Kit
and the VS Code.
So there are two different stuff.
VS Code is the code editor where you can
write code like this, for example,
print something for me.
And the Splash Kit is the library that
you are going to use to
have the predefined functions.
For example,
if you just say print this for me without
installing the library,
the computer doesn't know what to do.
But if you call those predefined
functions in Splash Git and you install
that,
the computer will know what exactly you
want to execute.
The answer would be yes,
you will need to download both of them
and the script will do that for you.
And it's actually the core question in
this unit, what the whole,
in the whole trimester,
what we are trying to answer is what is
these things, what are code editors,
what are code,
what are functions and what are libraries
and all those things.
And with that,
welcome to Introduction to Programming.
Yay, welcome. Yeah,
you are raising the correct answer.
Okay.
Okay, Alex, you got a question?
Feel free to mute yourself, yeah.
Yes, thank you. I just curious,
like before we started this course,
we were like,
I found all the recommended reading.
There seemed to be a whole tonne of it.
Did we have to actually read most of that
before we got through and started this
course or do I need to continue reading
because there's so much there,
I don't even know.
know what to begin on, where or am I just,
are we,
Yeah.
are you just telling us to read certain
chapters each week?
It's a.
It's like, you know,
how do you how do you say it?
It's like a chicken net game, right?
I mean,
there's so much you don't even know where
to start,
but I guess each week you'll know which
components or which parts of the PD guide
to look at, but yeah, like Alex,
what do you recommend?
I will say if you are completely new,
use the OnTrack task as a guide.
So whatever OnTrack task asks you to do
for this week,
Yeah.
read these chapters and read all that and
do it before you really jump into any
pre-reading.
I think that's actually the easier way to
do as a beginner.
Yeah, once you are more confident,
you can read all the suggested ratings.
Help.
I mean, if you, yeah.
Fantastic,
because that was just a lot of anxiety,
seeing how much text it was to read and
go on.
No, don't drop that anxiety.
You will find there is a lot of...
Yeah.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Yeah,
I think someone just shared the
Programming Arcane. Again,
that was a book that we used back in 2018,
2017. Like, it's an amazing book,
but the thing is like 300 pages,
so you can't really, you know,
sit and read that in like one night.
But if you are an absolute beginner, it,
you know, it should be.
You really shouldn't be looking at all
these resources and getting all them.
Think about the first steps.
You need to set up your system to be able
to run code, write code, and compile code.
Once you do that,
we'll start step by step, right?
Really simple stuff.
So the OnTrack tasks are actually
designed in a way to help that helps you.
Navigate these, you know,
this mountain of resources that you have,
so it'll take you, you know,
hold your hand,
take you one step at a time, and then,
of course, once you reach a certain level,
that's when you offer it to, well,
whatever you want to do,
and you have the resources to do that.
Matt,
that book cover looks like we need to
sacrifice a goat to start programming or
something. Like,
Ohh.
what's the deal with that?
Ha ha ha ha!
Yes.
Well, yeah, definitely do it.
If you do that and it works, let us know.
We will all do that instead of doing a
course.
Right, I'll bring the goat next week.
I mean.
All right, you already sacrificed, okay,
and then you still here.
I mean, uh,
it it it's like the it's like the age of
That doesn't work, man.
chat GPD, right? So,
probably delete a photo of a goat,
so that should be good enough.
Already.
Alright, I think we are done for the day.
Awesome!
Yep.
Thank you all for joining us and we hope
to see you same time next week.
If you do go to Monday sessions,
please be aware that Monday is the public
holiday for Victorians. Yes,
Yeah.
and we are sharing that with all of you.
And the campus is closed and we don't
expect a session on Monday. So
Yeah.
It will be announced anytime soon in the
week.
Could be announced sometime soon.
We only have one more day left.
I think there was,
so I think Aaron was asking if we can
take something on Tuesday, but again,
don't quote me on that.
Yeah, it should be on Tuesday, but yeah.
Don't quote us on that.
It might be on Tuesday,
Yeah.
so watch out for an announcement. But yes,
we will definitely have a session next
Thursday, which Alex and I will conduct.
So hope to see you there.
Yep, awesome. Thank you very much.
See you guys. Have a good night. Cheers.
Awesome. Thank you guys.
Yeah, goodnight. Cheers. Bye bye.
Bye bye.
Ethan,
you have a question and Ethan is gone.
Yeah.
Sorry, I have a quick question.
Yep.
Vrisha.
Uh, so when I type SKM in the terminal,
so it shows me this one, so...
That's good,
that means you have installed that. Wait,
hang on. Min GW64 Hub list on support,
please run SKM commands since CLAG ARM.
Wait, what laptop are you using?
I have a Snapdragon.
Then you need to, okay,
then make sure you install the VM system
version for Snapdragon.
So that's an ERM 64 machine.
It's not an X64 X86 machine.
So I downloaded ARM 64.
Okay, okay.
So, but uh, when it says, uh, Tydd Wei.
OK, so when you install that, yeah,
so when you install that, right,
so then there would be something called a
C-lang, so if you can run it in there,
it should work.
When I type Y,
then it opens in the other terminal,
but it says like it's installed
successfully.
Yeah.
That, that, that's all I need to say.
Okay, thank you.
No problem.
Cheers. Thank you. Bye bye. See you guys.
Bye.
Bye-bye.